README.md, before:

[![CI Test Status][ci-img]][ci-url]
[![Code Climate][clim-img]][clim-url]

# haraka-plugin-bounce

# bounce

Provide options for bounce processing.

## Configuration

Each feature can be enabled/disabled with a true/false toggle in the `[check]`
section of `config/bounce.ini`:

Some features can have rejections disabled in the [reject] section.

```ini
[check]
reject_all=false
single_recipient=true
empty_return_path=true
bad_rcpt=true
bounce_spf=true
non_local_msgid=true

[reject]
single_recipient=true
empty_return_path=true
bounce_spf=false
non_local_msgid=false
```

## Features

### reject_all

When enabled, blocks all bounce messages using the simple rule of checking for `MAIL FROM:<>`.

It is generally a bad idea to block all bounces. This option can be useful for mail servers at domains with frequent spoofing and few or no human users.

### single_recipient

Valid bounces have a single recipient. Assure that the message really is a bounce by enforcing bounces to be addressed to a single recipient.

This check is skipped for relays or hosts with a private IP, this is because Microsoft Exchange distribution lists will send messages to list members with a null return-path when the 'Do not send delivery reports' option is enabled (yes, really...).

### empty_return_path

Valid bounces should have an empty return path. Test for the presence of the Return-Path header in bounces and disallow.

### bad_rcpt

Disallow bounces to email addresses listed in `config/bounce_bad_rcpt`.

Include email addresses in that file that should _never_ receive bounce messages. Examples of email addresses that should be listed are: autoresponders, do-not-reply@example.com, dmarc-feedback@example.com, and any other email addresses used solely for machine generated messages.

### bounce_spf

Parses the message body and any MIME parts for Received: headers and strips out the IP addresses of each Received hop and then checks what the SPF result would have been if bounced message had been sent by that hop.

If no 'Pass' result is found, then this test will fail. If SPF returns 'None', 'TempError' or 'PermError' then the test will be skipped.

## USAGE

Add `bounce` to Haraka's config/plugins file. If desired, install and customize a local bounce.ini.

```sh
cp node_modules/haraka-plugin-bounce/config/bounce.ini config/bounce.ini
$EDITOR config/bounce.ini
```

<!-- leave these buried at the bottom of the document -->

[ci-img]: https://github.com/haraka/haraka-plugin-bounce/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg
[ci-url]: https://github.com/haraka/haraka-plugin-bounce/actions/workflows/ci.yml
[clim-img]: https://codeclimate.com/github/haraka/haraka-plugin-bounce/badges/gpa.svg
[clim-url]: https://codeclimate.com/github/haraka/haraka-plugin-bounce

Commit message:

Bug fixes and added more tests (#4)
Changes proposed in this pull request:

- check host_list to confirm if local domain
- added config file for allowed Message-IDs
- added tests for bounce_spf()
- added Sinon for creating mocks
- moved bad_rcpt function from hook_data to hook_rcpt_ok
- renamed config key check.reject_all to reject.all_bounces
- moved config key check.bad_rcpt to reject.bad_rcpt
- refactored most of the existing tests to be more thorough
- Message-ID header regex to check for required angle brackets
- moved reject_all from [check] to [reject] and renamed to all_bounces
- updated bounce_spf to use promises
- fixed bug where config key reject.empty_return_path was ignored
- fixed timeout bug in bounce_spf()

README.md, after:

[![CI Test Status][ci-img]][ci-url]
[![Code Climate][clim-img]][clim-url]

# haraka-plugin-bounce

# bounce

Provide options for bounce processing.

## Configuration

Each feature can be enabled/disabled with a true/false toggle in the `[check]`
section of `config/bounce.ini`:

Some features can have rejections disabled in the [reject] section.

```ini
[check]
single_recipient=true
empty_return_path=false
bounce_spf=true
non_local_msgid=true

[reject]
single_recipient=true
empty_return_path=false
bounce_spf=false
non_local_msgid=false
bad_rcpt=true
all_bounces=false
```

## Features

### all_bounces

When enabled, blocks all bounce messages using the simple rule of checking for `MAIL FROM:<>`.

It is generally a bad idea to block all bounces. This option can be useful for mail servers at domains with frequent spoofing and few or no human users.

### single_recipient

Valid bounces have a single recipient. Assure that the message really is a bounce by enforcing bounces to be addressed to a single recipient.

This check is skipped for relays or hosts with a private IP, this is because Microsoft Exchange distribution lists will send messages to list members with a null return-path when the 'Do not send delivery reports' option is enabled (yes, really...).

### empty_return_path

Valid bounces should have an empty return path. Test for the presence of the Return-Path header in bounces and disallow.

### bad_rcpt

When enabled, rejects bounces to email addresses listed in `config/bounce_bad_rcpt`.

Include email addresses that should _never_ receive bounce messages. Examples of email addresses that should be listed are: autoresponders, do-not-reply@example.com, dmarc-feedback@example.com, and any other email addresses used solely for machine generated messages.

### bounce_spf

Parses the message body and any MIME parts for Received: headers and strips out the IP addresses of each Received hop and then checks what the SPF result would have been if bounced message had been sent by that hop.

If no 'Pass' result is found, then this test will fail. If SPF returns 'None', 'TempError' or 'PermError' then the test will be skipped.

### non_local_msgid

Parses the message body and any MIME parts for Message-ID: headers and strips out the host name. If the host name is not a local domain, the bounce will be rejected.

This test needs to know which domains are 'local' to your mail server. If you use the rcpt_to.in_host_list plugin and have populated the `config/host_list` file, then you're done. Alternatively you can populate the `config/bounce_msgid_allowed_domains` with a list of local domains. 

## USAGE

Add `bounce` to Haraka's config/plugins file. If desired, install and customize a local bounce.ini.

```sh
cp node_modules/haraka-plugin-bounce/config/bounce.ini config/bounce.ini
$EDITOR config/bounce.ini
```

<!-- leave these buried at the bottom of the document -->

[ci-img]: https://github.com/haraka/haraka-plugin-bounce/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg
[ci-url]: https://github.com/haraka/haraka-plugin-bounce/actions/workflows/ci.yml
[clim-img]: https://codeclimate.com/github/haraka/haraka-plugin-bounce/badges/gpa.svg
[clim-url]: https://codeclimate.com/github/haraka/haraka-plugin-bounce
[npm-img]: https://nodei.co/npm/haraka-plugin-bounce.png
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/haraka-plugin-bounce
